README.md, before:

# Genpact Automation Framework

A lightweight C# Playwright automation framework demonstrating UI and API testing capabilities against Wikipedia.

## Overview

This project implements a test automation framework using:
- **C#** with **.NET 7.0**
- **Playwright** for browser automation
- **NUnit** as the testing framework
- **Page Object Model (POM)** design pattern
- **Dependency Injection** for clean architecture
- **MediaWiki Parse API** for API testing

## Target Application

All tests target the Wikipedia page: [Playwright (software)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Playwright_(software))

## Test Cases

### Task 1: Debugging Features Section Comparison
- Extracts the "Debugging features" section via **UI** (using Page Object Model)
- Extracts the same section via **API** (using MediaWiki Parse API)
- Normalizes both texts and counts unique words
- Asserts that both word counts are equal

### Task 2: Microsoft Development Tools Link Validation
- Navigates to the "Microsoft development tools" section
- Validates that all technology names are text links
- Fails the test if any technology name is not a link
- Reports all non-link entries for debugging

### Task 3: Color Theme Change Validation
- Opens the "Color (beta)" section from the appearance sidebar
- Changes the color theme to "Dark"
- Validates that the dark theme was actually applied

## Project Structure

```
GenpactAutomation/
├── Api/                      # API clients
│   ├── IMediaWikiApiClient.cs
│   └── MediaWikiApiClient.cs
├── Config/                   # Configuration classes
│   ├── MediaWikiApiConfig.cs
│   ├── PageNavigatorConfig.cs
│   ├── PlaywrightBrowserConfig.cs
│   ├── PlaywrightBrowserContextConfig.cs
│   ├── WikipediaConfig.cs
│   └── WikipediaOptionsPostConfigure.cs
├── Elements/                 # Custom element abstractions
│   ├── AbstractElement.cs
│   ├── Table.cs
│   └── TextBox.cs
├── Extensions/               # DI and configuration extensions
│   └── ConfigurationExtensions.cs
├── Navigation/               # Navigation utilities
│   └── PageNavigator.cs
├── Pages/                    # Page Objects
│   ├── Page.cs
│   └── WikipediaPlaywrightPage.cs
├── Tests/                    # Test classes
│   ├── PlaywrightBaseTest.cs
│   └── WikipediaPlaywrightTests.cs
├── Utils/                    # Utility classes
│   ├── TestReportHelper.cs
│   └── TextNormalizer.cs
├── appsettings.default.json  # Default configuration
├── SdkPlaywrightBaseTest.cs  # Base test setup
└── TestCompositionRoot.cs    # DI container setup
```

## Architecture Highlights

- **Clean Architecture**: Separation of concerns with distinct layers for pages, API clients, and utilities
- **SOLID Principles**: Single responsibility, dependency injection, and interface segregation
- **Configuration Management**: Centralized configuration with `IOptions` pattern
- **Reusable Components**: Element abstractions and text normalizers for consistent behavior

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- .NET 7.0 SDK or later
- Playwright browsers (installed automatically)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/genpact-assignment.git
   cd genpact-assignment
   ```

2. Restore dependencies:
   ```bash
   dotnet restore
   ```

3. Build the solution:
   ```bash
   dotnet build
   ```

4. Install Playwright browsers:
   ```bash
   pwsh GenpactAutomation/bin/Debug/net7.0/playwright.ps1 install
   ```

### Running Tests

Run all tests (Allure.NUnit writes results to `GenpactAutomation/bin/Debug/net7.0/allure-results/` by default):
```bash
dotnet test
```

Run with verbose output:
```bash
dotnet test --logger "console;verbosity=detailed"
```

Run a specific test:
```bash
dotnet test --filter "Task1_DebuggingFeaturesSection_UniqueWordCount_UI_Equals_API"
```

### Viewing the Allure report locally

1. **Prerequisites:** [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and Java 8+ (for Allure CLI).

2. **Install Allure commandline** (one time):
   ```bash
   npm install -g allure-commandline
   ```

3. **Run tests**, then generate and open the report:
   ```bash
   dotnet test
   allure serve GenpactAutomation/bin/Debug/net7.0/allure-results
   ```
   This generates the HTML report and opens it in your default browser.

   **Alternative:** generate to a folder and open `allure-report/index.html` in a browser:
   ```bash
   dotnet test
   allure generate GenpactAutomation/bin/Debug/net7.0/allure-results -o allure-report --clean
   # Then open allure-report/index.html
   ```

## Configuration

The framework uses `appsettings.default.json` for configuration:

```json
{
  "Wikipedia": {
    "BaseUrl": "https://en.wikipedia.org/"
  },
  "PlaywrightBrowserConfig": {
    "Headless": true,
    "Args": ["--start-maximized"]
  }
}
```

## CI/CD and Allure report

1. **GitHub Pages:** In the repository **Settings > Pages**, set **Source** to **GitHub Actions**.

2. The workflow (`.github/workflows/dotnet.yml`) does:
   - **Generate report:** Restore, build, install Playwright, run tests (Allure.NUnit writes to `allure-results/`), then run Allure CLI to produce the HTML report in `allure-report/`.
   - **Upload artifact:** `actions/upload-pages-artifact` uploads `allure-report/` (with `index.html` at root).
   - **Deploy:** `actions/deploy-pages` publishes to GitHub Pages.

3. After a successful run, the report is available at your GitHub Pages URL (e.g. `https://<username>.github.io/<repo>/`).

## Technologies Used

| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| C# / .NET 7.0 | Programming language and runtime |
| Playwright | Browser automation |
| NUnit | Testing framework |
| Microsoft.Extensions.DI | Dependency injection |
| Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration | Configuration management |
| MediaWiki API | Wikipedia content API |

## Author

Developed as part of the Genpact Automation QA Assessment.

## License

This project is for assessment purposes only.

Commit message:

Enhance CI/CD workflow and README for Allure report generation. Update GitHub Actions to include separate jobs for running Playwright tests and deploying Allure reports. Improve documentation on GitHub Pages setup and report access, ensuring clarity on triggers and artifact handling.

README.md, after:

# Genpact Automation Framework

A lightweight C# Playwright automation framework demonstrating UI and API testing capabilities against Wikipedia.

## Overview

This project implements a test automation framework using:
- **C#** with **.NET 7.0**
- **Playwright** for browser automation
- **NUnit** as the testing framework
- **Page Object Model (POM)** design pattern
- **Dependency Injection** for clean architecture
- **MediaWiki Parse API** for API testing

## Target Application

All tests target the Wikipedia page: [Playwright (software)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Playwright_(software))

## Test Cases

### Task 1: Debugging Features Section Comparison
- Extracts the "Debugging features" section via **UI** (using Page Object Model)
- Extracts the same section via **API** (using MediaWiki Parse API)
- Normalizes both texts and counts unique words
- Asserts that both word counts are equal

### Task 2: Microsoft Development Tools Link Validation
- Navigates to the "Microsoft development tools" section
- Validates that all technology names are text links
- Fails the test if any technology name is not a link
- Reports all non-link entries for debugging

### Task 3: Color Theme Change Validation
- Opens the "Color (beta)" section from the appearance sidebar
- Changes the color theme to "Dark"
- Validates that the dark theme was actually applied

## Project Structure

```
GenpactAutomation/
├── Api/                      # API clients
│   ├── IMediaWikiApiClient.cs
│   └── MediaWikiApiClient.cs
├── Config/                   # Configuration classes
│   ├── MediaWikiApiConfig.cs
│   ├── PageNavigatorConfig.cs
│   ├── PlaywrightBrowserConfig.cs
│   ├── PlaywrightBrowserContextConfig.cs
│   ├── WikipediaConfig.cs
│   └── WikipediaOptionsPostConfigure.cs
├── Elements/                 # Custom element abstractions
│   ├── AbstractElement.cs
│   ├── Table.cs
│   └── TextBox.cs
├── Extensions/               # DI and configuration extensions
│   └── ConfigurationExtensions.cs
├── Navigation/               # Navigation utilities
│   └── PageNavigator.cs
├── Pages/                    # Page Objects
│   ├── Page.cs
│   └── WikipediaPlaywrightPage.cs
├── Tests/                    # Test classes
│   ├── PlaywrightBaseTest.cs
│   └── WikipediaPlaywrightTests.cs
├── Utils/                    # Utility classes
│   ├── TestReportHelper.cs
│   └── TextNormalizer.cs
├── appsettings.default.json  # Default configuration
├── SdkPlaywrightBaseTest.cs  # Base test setup
└── TestCompositionRoot.cs    # DI container setup
```

## Architecture Highlights

- **Clean Architecture**: Separation of concerns with distinct layers for pages, API clients, and utilities
- **SOLID Principles**: Single responsibility, dependency injection, and interface segregation
- **Configuration Management**: Centralized configuration with `IOptions` pattern
- **Reusable Components**: Element abstractions and text normalizers for consistent behavior

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- .NET 7.0 SDK or later
- Playwright browsers (installed automatically)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/genpact-assignment.git
   cd genpact-assignment
   ```

2. Restore dependencies:
   ```bash
   dotnet restore
   ```

3. Build the solution:
   ```bash
   dotnet build
   ```

4. Install Playwright browsers:
   ```bash
   pwsh GenpactAutomation/bin/Debug/net7.0/playwright.ps1 install
   ```

### Running Tests

Run all tests (Allure.NUnit writes results to `GenpactAutomation/bin/Debug/net7.0/allure-results/` by default):
```bash
dotnet test
```

Run with verbose output:
```bash
dotnet test --logger "console;verbosity=detailed"
```

Run a specific test:
```bash
dotnet test --filter "Task1_DebuggingFeaturesSection_UniqueWordCount_UI_Equals_API"
```

### Viewing the Allure report locally

1. **Prerequisites:** [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and Java 8+ (for Allure CLI).

2. **Install Allure commandline** (one time):
   ```bash
   npm install -g allure-commandline
   ```

3. **Run tests**, then generate and open the report:
   ```bash
   dotnet test
   allure serve GenpactAutomation/bin/Debug/net7.0/allure-results
   ```
   This generates the HTML report and opens it in your default browser.

   **Alternative:** generate to a folder and open `allure-report/index.html` in a browser:
   ```bash
   dotnet test
   allure generate GenpactAutomation/bin/Debug/net7.0/allure-results -o allure-report --clean
   # Then open allure-report/index.html
   ```

## Configuration

The framework uses `appsettings.default.json` for configuration:

```json
{
  "Wikipedia": {
    "BaseUrl": "https://en.wikipedia.org/"
  },
  "PlaywrightBrowserConfig": {
    "Headless": true,
    "Args": ["--start-maximized"]
  }
}
```

## CI/CD and Allure report

1. **GitHub Pages:** In **Settings > Pages**, set **Source** to **Deploy from a branch**, branch **gh-pages** (the workflow publishes to this branch).

2. The workflow (`.github/workflows/dotnet.yml`) does:
   - **Job 1 – Run QA Tests:** Checkout, .NET 7, restore & build, install Playwright, run tests. Allure.NUnit writes to `GenpactAutomation/bin/Debug/net7.0/allure-results/`. That folder is uploaded as an artifact (`allure-results`), even when the job fails (`if: always()`).
   - **Job 2 – Deploy Allure Report:** Runs `if: always()` after the test job. Downloads the `allure-results` artifact, installs Allure CLI (Allure 2 via wget), restores **history** from `gh-pages` (for report trends), generates the HTML report, deploys to **gh-pages** with `peaceiris/actions-gh-pages`, comments on the PR with the report URL, and adds the URL to the Actions summary.

3. **Triggers:** Push and pull requests to `main` or `master` (ignoring changes to `README.md` only).

4. After a run, the report is at **https://\<username\>.github.io/\<repo>/**. On pull requests, the workflow also posts a comment with that link.

## Technologies Used

| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| C# / .NET 7.0 | Programming language and runtime |
| Playwright | Browser automation |
| NUnit | Testing framework |
| Microsoft.Extensions.DI | Dependency injection |
| Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration | Configuration management |
| MediaWiki API | Wikipedia content API |

## Author

Developed as part of the Genpact Automation QA Assessment.

## License

This project is for assessment purposes only.
